<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html
        PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
        "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
    <title>SongEBook - what is it?</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="./htmlstyle.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<h2>What is SongEBook?</h2>
<p>
    Short answer is - it is a tool that generates a songbook in a form of an e-book.
</p>
<h2>Why was it created?</h2>
<p>
    It's about songbooks - so I'm in a mood of telling a story on a summer evening at a camp fire. Deal with it or just
    skip to the next chapter ;). I'll acknowledge that I'm getting old and boring and no one wants to listen to my
    stories.
</p>
<p>
    For many years I had compiled my songbooks in regular paper notebooks. With time moving on, these gained in volume
    and emotional value (and errors), resembling all cool evenings when they had been used. I have no idea what happened
    to my latest songbook in this form - losing it I lost all songs I wrote in it. So, the next option was compiling a
    songbook in a document editor (I used Word) and printing it. The advantages were: a)&nbsp;I&nbsp;could save the
    songbook on my computer and restore it should anything happen to the printed version and b)&nbsp;I could easily
    expand and modify it. The editor would usually take care of updating the Table Of Contents (TOC), although creating
    alphabetical indexes (of songs, of authors) was somehow cumbersome. So was formatting - had to select each verse or
    chorus to apply the formatting. Another drawback was, whenever I added, deleted or moved the songs in the TOC, the
    page numbering and indexing affected the whole songbook and usually meant the necessity of printing the whole
    songbook again. Therefore, each tiny fix of an annoying typo or a wrong chord would have to wait until the next
    season to be included in the print.
</p>
<p>
    Then came the era of small devices like smartphones that were light enough to take them to your vacation. WHOA! Now
    we could find any song we wanted on the Internet sitting right at the camp fire!... And it often turned out that the
    song with the chords found online doesn't sound as expected. And, somehow, the glowing screens around the fire took
    a lot of the evening charm away. Not to mention the necessity of constantly rubbing the touchscreen so that it
    doesn't go out.<br/>
    On the other hand, e-book readers stay on the selected page significantly longer than a smartphone. And their
    lighting isn't that aggressive.
</p>
<p>
    So, the self-compiled songbooks didn't become obsolete.
</p>
<p>
    First, I converted my Word document to PDF and uploaded to my Kindle. Unlike printing, this can be done any number
    of times per season. Yet, the PDF on the reader was somehow cumbersome. I could not navigate it other than by
    entering the page number - while for other e-books I had on my reader I could enjoy quite useful navigation,
    searching etc.
</p>
<p>So I got this idea of a songbook generator:</p>
<ul>
    <li>I wanted to display my songbook on an e-book reader rather than on a smartphone screen</li>
    <li>I wanted to take the advantage of the e-book in terms of navigation, searching, links etc</li>
    <li>I wanted to be able to modify my songbook quickly (content of individual songs as well as the overall structure
        of the songbook)
    </li>
    <li>I wanted to be able to keep subsequent versions of my songbook in a Version Control System - ASCII text files
        were preferred over binary files like .docx or .pdf
    </li>
</ul>
</body>
</html>